#!/bin/bash

MSG='
(You can scroll down using the arrow key).

Less sophisticated censors prevent users from accessing the Tor network by blocking connections to known relays. "Bridge relays" help these users access Tor by not being in the same public lists as normal relays.

Sophisticated censors can only be circumvented with VPNs or private obfuscated bridges.

Because there is NOT a 100% safe way to hide Tor, Whonix does NOT recommend using Tor if you fear detection.


Finding Public Bridges
----------------------

You can find the IP address of public bridges at:
https://bridges.torproject.org/bridges

If you can not reach the URL, send an email (from a gmail.com or yahoo.com account only) to bridges@torproject.org with "get bridges" in the message body.


Private Obfuscated Bridges
--------------------------

Someone you trust -- outside the reach of the censors but accessible from your location -- must run a bridge service configured with obfsproxy 3 (to help avoid detection) and the option "PublishServerDescriptor 0" (to not be publicly listed by The Tor Project). However, since even private obfuscated bridges can ultimately be detected, Whonix does NOT recommend using bridges if you fear detection.


Configure Whonix to Use a Bridge
--------------------------------

Press enter to close this message, then cancel the connection wizard via the main menu. You must manually add the IP addresses to /etc/tor/torrc. Comments and examples in that file will help you through the process. After you have finished, restart the First Time Connection Wizard.

You can open /etc/tor/torrc in the terminal:

    sudo nano /etc/tor/torrc

Or, if you are using a graphical Whonix-Gateway:

    Start Menu -> Applications -> /etc/tor/torrc


Configure Whonix to a Use a VPN
-------------------------------

Where Tor is censored but VPNs are allowed, you can hide your Tor connection inside a VPN connection. To the censors, your internet traffic will look like an encrypted VPN connection. The VPN will then send your Tor traffic onward to the first Tor relay.

If you are using Whonix-Gateway inside VirtualBox, configure your VPN software inside the host operating system. Your VPN provider will have instructions for you to follow and possibly custom software to help you connect.

However, you MUST configure your VPN software (whether custom or built in your operating system) to send all internet traffic through the VPN connection, and you MUST configure your VPN software to block all internet traffic if the VPN is disconnected. Additionally, you MUST NOT chose PPTP as your encryption, even if your VPN allows it. Improperly configured VPN software will reveal your Tor connection to the censors.

Whonix recommends a VPN provider who is serious about privacy and is outside the reach of your censors.
'

TITLE="Tor is censored or dangerous in my area."

dialog --title "$TITLE" --msgbox "$MSG" 640 480

exit 0
